We added middlewares and I mentioned that this is a crucial concept of the express framework and that we
should call next if we don't send a response because otherwise, the request will just die and will not
continue to the next middleware.
Now in this middleware, we're not calling next
and there also wouldn't be a next middleware in line,
this is our entire script right,
there is nothing to come. Expressjs
and that's important
doesn't send a default response or anything like that,
so instead we should send a response here. So we can use the response object and now sending responses
actually gets easier, thanks to expressjs
.
Instead of setting a header which we still can do and writing which we also still can do, so we can still
send responses as before
but instead of doing this, there is a new utility function we can use, send. Send allows us to send well
a response
and actually this allows us to attach a body which is of type any,
now let me show you what this could be.
We could send good old html code here,
just h1 tag, hello from express, like this.
If we do that and we now reload this page here, we see hello from express,
by the way one thing you'll notice is that if you open your network tab here and you inspect that request
you got,
you will see that under headers, the content type is automatically set to text html here.
So this is done for you,
this is another feature provided by express here. The send method by default here
since we send some text here simply sets an html content type,
you can still set one manually with set header of course, so you can always override this expressjs
default but you can also rely on the default where the default response header is text html.
And now with that, you see that we also get no dying request anymore because even though we're not calling
next here and we shouldn't, we're doing the alternative, we're sending a response with send
and this is of course easier than using all these write chunks and it will be particularly easier once
we start sending back real files or the content of files,
something we haven't done at all thus far.
Now this is something we'll also do in this module but for now, make sure you understand this basic middleware
concept, that you add functions that are hooked into this funnel through which the request goes and you
either have next to reach the next middleware or you send a response to, well not do anything else.
And of course if we would send a response here instead of calling next, we would never reach that middleware,
so you really just travel from middleware to middleware, from top to bottom by calling next.